cloud:  update security FAQs (#12498)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-security-faq.md

- Disclosure of customer content:We will not disclose customer content as governed by the Privacy Policy. (For details about TiDB Cloud's Privacy Policy) unless we're required to do so to comply with the law or a binding order of a government body. If a governmental body sends TiDB Cloud  a demand for your customer content, we will attempt to redirect the governmental body to request that data directly from you. If compelled to disclose your customer content to a government body, we will give you reasonable notice of the demand to allow the customer to seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy unless TiDB Cloud is legally prohibited from doing so.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer information？

We define customer data as your business data, database files (including backups and snapshots), logs, and customer PII that a customer sends to the TiDB cluster for analysis, processing, storage, or hosting by TiDB Cloud in connection with the customer's account. For example, customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or Tiflash, which are located in S3 buckets or EBS of AWS.

> 

Reviewer: "a customer sends to the TiDB cluster for analysis, processing, storage, or hosting by TiDB Cloud in connection with the customer's account", 这里比较难懂，什么是 hosting by TiDB Cloud in connection with the customer's account，可以调整下说法吗

Author: ok

> Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, clinic, and meta data（For details about TiDB Cloud's Privacy Policy）:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, diagnosis, and metadata as follows:

> 

Reviewer: For TiDB Cloud, the tool clinic is not provided directly so diagnosis data looks easier to understand.

- Operational data includes TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.

- Clinic data includes TiDB Cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB Cluster config items, node IPs, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.

> 

Reviewer: runtime metrics 在 Operational data 和 Clinic data 里都出现了，是否可以只保留一处

- Meta data includes TiDB Cloud customer register accounts (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

> TiDB Cloud operational data is described in [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about TiDB Cloud operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).
```

---
title:  Security FAQs
summary: Learn about the most frequently asked security questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud.
---

#  Security FAQs

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked security questions about TiDB Cloud.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer information？

TiDB Cloud defines customer data as follows:

- Business data
- Database files (including backups and snapshots)
- Logs
- Customer personally identifiable information (PII) that a customer sends to the TiDB cluster for analysis, processing, storage, or hosting by TiDB Cloud in connection with the customer's account. 

> For example, customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or Tiflash, which are located in S3 buckets or EBS of AWS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which are located in S3 buckets or EBS of AWS.
```

Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, diagnosis, and metadata as follows:

- Operational data includes TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.

- Diagnosis data includes TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IPs, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.

- Metadata includes TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

For more information about TiDB Cloud operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

> ## Who owns customer Data？

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## ## Who owns my data?
```

As a customer, you own your data and have the right to choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host it. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission. 

## Who has control over customer data？

As a customer, you have full control of your data:

- You decide where your data will be stored, including the type of storage and geographic location.

- You determine the level of security of your data based on your industry's data security and privacy policies. TiDB Cloud offers encryption features to protect your data either in transit or stored at different security levels.

- You manage access to your data, as well as access to the TiDB Cloud databases and tools, through users, roles, and credentials that you control.

> ## Where is Customer Data stored？

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Where is my data stored?
```

In TiDB Cloud, you have the flexibility to choose how and where you want to run your TiDB database. When you do, you will have access to the same database tools, storage locations, regional control planes, APIs, Chat2Query, and other database services. If you want to run your database globally, you can choose from various regions on AWS or GCP.

As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by deploying your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

You can also replicate and back up your data in multiple AWS or GCP regions. PingCAP will not move or replicate your data outside of your chosen AWS or GCP region without your agreement.

> ## What is my role in securing customer data？

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What is my role in securing customer data?
```

When you assess the security and compliance of roles and responsibilities, it is crucial to differentiate between the security role of TiDB Cloud and the security role of your own in using TiDB Cloud. 

TiDB Cloud is responsible for implementing and maintaining its own security measures, while you are responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within the TiDB Cloud environment. Your security role in TiDB Cloud involves implementing and managing any security features and measures related to your use of TiDB Cloud.

> ## Who can access customer data in TiDB Cloud？

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Who can access customer data in TiDB Cloud?
```

---
title: Security FAQs
summary: Learn about the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud security.
---

# Security FAQs

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked questions about TiDB Cloud security.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer data?

Customer data refers to the data that customer applications send to TiDB Cloud clusters for analysis, processing, and storage under their accounts. TiDB Cloud classifies customer data into the following categories:

- Business data (including consumer data and table data)
- Database files (including database backups and snapshots)
- SQL logs
- Personally identifiable information (PII) of customers' consumers (excluding TiDB Cloud account registration and login information)

Customer data includes data that customers or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in the cloud providers' storage (such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).

> Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud diagnosis data, metadata:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud diagnosis data and metadata:
```

- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
- Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

> For more information about the diagnosis data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

Reviewer: https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/ 这里关于 diagnosis data 的信息很少，只有 TiDB Product telemetry data  和 PingCAP Clinic

## Who owns customer data?

> Customer have the ownership of your customer data, and therefore have the right to decide which data can be processed, stored, and hosted by TiDB Cloud. TiDB Cloud will not access or utilize your customer data without your explicit permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers own their data and therefore have the right to decide which data can be processed, stored, and hosted by TiDB Cloud. TiDB Cloud cannot access or utilize customer data without customers' explicit permission.
```

## Who has control over customer data?

> Customer have complete control over your data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers have complete control over their data:
```

> - You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. 
> 
> - You can manage access to your data, as well as the TiDB Cloud databases and tools, through user management that you control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customers can choose how to protect their data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard the data. 

- Customers can manage access to their data, as well as the TiDB Cloud databases and tools, through user management.
```

Customer data includes data that customers or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in the cloud providers' storage (such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).

Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational data, diagnosis data, or metadata:

- Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
- Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

For more information about the operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

## Who owns customer data?

> As a customer, you have full ownership of your data and can choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host your data. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you have full ownership of your data and can choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host your data. TiDB Cloud cannot access or use your data without your permission.
```

## Who has control over customer data?

As a customer, you have complete control over your data:

> - You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. Additionally. If you prefer to bring your key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. Additionally, if you prefer to bring your encryption key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

---
title: Security FAQs
summary: Learn about the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud security.
---

# Security FAQs

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked questions about TiDB Cloud security.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer data?

> Customer data is the data sent from customer applications to TiDB Cloud clusters for analysis, processing, and storage with customers' accounts. TiDB Cloud classifies customer data as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data refers to the data that customer applications send to TiDB Cloud clusters for analysis, processing, and storage under customers' accounts. TiDB Cloud classifies customer data into the following categories:
```

- Business data (including consumer data and table data)
- Database files (including database backups and snapshots)
- SQL logs
- Consumer personally identifiable information (PII) (not including TiDB Cloud account registration and login information)

> Customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in storage of cloud service provider(such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data includes data that customers or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in the storage of cloud providers (such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).
```

Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, diagnosis, or metadata:

- Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
- Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

For more information about TiDB Cloud operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

## Who owns customer data?

> As a customer, you own your data and have the right to choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host the data. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you own your data and have the right to choose which TiDB Cloud cluster processes, stores, and hosts your data. TiDB Cloud cannot access or use your data without your permission. 
```

## Who has control over customer data?

As a customer, you have full control of your data:

> - You choose how to protect your customer data. TiDB Cloud offers you with encryption at rest and in transit to protect your data .And you can choose to manage your own encryption key. If you need to bring your own key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can choose how to protect your data with TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. And, you have the option to manage your own encryption key. If you prefer to bring your own key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> - You manage access to your data, as well as access to the TiDB Cloud databases and tools through users, roles, and credentials that you control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can manage access to your data, as well as access to the TiDB Cloud databases and tools through users, roles, and credentials that you control.
```

## Where is customer data stored?

In TiDB Cloud, you have the flexibility to choose how and where you want to run your TiDB database. When you do, you have access to your TiDB database tools, storage locations, regional control planes, APIs, Chat2Query, and other database services. If you want to run your database globally, you can choose from various regions on AWS or GCP.

> As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by creating your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by creating your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to create a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.
```

## What are the roles in securing customer data?

> When you assess the security and compliance of roles and responsibilities, it is crucial to differentiate between the security role of TiDB Cloud and the security role of your own in using TiDB Cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you assess the security and compliance of roles and responsibilities, it is crucial to differentiate between the security role of TiDB Cloud and your own security role in using TiDB Cloud. 
```

TiDB Cloud is mainly responsible for implementing and maintaining the sustainable, safe, stable, and compliant operation of TiDB Cloud.

> As a customer, you are your database owner, and you take the administrative and operational role of your database. You are primarily responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within the TiDB Cloud. And your role in TiDB Cloud also involves implementing and managing any security features and access control policies of your own TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you are the owner of your database and take on the administrative and operational role of your database. You are primarily responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within TiDB Cloud. And your role in TiDB Cloud also involves implementing and managing any security features and access control policies for your TiDB cluster.
```

TiDB Cloud has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and PingCAP invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).

In TiDB Cloud, the data access security measures includes the following:

- TiDB Cloud has designed a multi-tenant TiDB Cloud database service platform that follows the multi-tenant isolation architecture and best practices of AWS and GCP SaaS applications. The security functions and isolation mechanisms include multi-tenant authentication and authorization, network access control, data encryption, and auditing, focusing on protecting customer data with ongoing security and compliance.

> - TiDB Cloud has designed a secure and trusted TiDB Cloud technical architecture. The architecture effectively isolates and prohibits any insiders from directly accessing the TiDB Cloud infrastructure. No PingCAP staff can directly access the TiDB Cloud infrastructure where customer data resides. If internal technical personnel needs to monitor and maintain the TiDB Cloud infrastructure, they must go through a strict approval process, obtain minimum permissions, and pass the Bastion audit to complete the approved operation and maintenance within a limited time. Moreover, all operational behaviors will be recorded and audited, and TiDB Cloud also configures monitoring and alarms for unauthorized operation and maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed a secure and trusted technical architecture, which effectively isolates and prohibits any insiders from directly accessing the infrastructure. No PingCAP staff can directly access the TiDB Cloud infrastructure where customer data resides. If PingCAP technical personnel needs to monitor and maintain the TiDB Cloud infrastructure, they must go through a strict approval process, obtain minimum permissions, and pass the Bastion audit to complete the approved operation and maintenance within a limited time. Moreover, all operational behaviors will be recorded and audited, and TiDB Cloud also configures monitoring and alarms for unauthorized operation and maintenance.
```

## How does TiDB Cloud encrypt customer data?

> TiDB Cloud uses storage volume encryption by default for customer data at rest, including both database data and backup data. TiDB Cloud requires TLS encryption for customer data in transit, and also requires component-level TLS encryption for data in your Dedicated Tier cluster between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, TiDB Cloud encrypts customer data at rest using storage volume encryption, including both database data and backup data. TiDB Cloud also requires TLS encryption for customer data in transit and component-level TLS encryption for data in your Dedicated Tier cluster between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash.
```

For more details, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Can I run TiDB Cloud in my own VPC?

> No. TiDB Cloud is a fully-managed Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) and runs only in the TiDB Cloud VPC. As a cloud computing managed service, TiDB Cloud provides access to a database without requiring the setup of physical hardware and the installation of software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. TiDB Cloud is a fully-managed Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) that runs only in the TiDB Cloud VPC. As a cloud computing managed service, it enables you to access a database without the need for physical hardware setup or software installation.
```

---
title: Security FAQs
summary: Learn about the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud security.
---

# Security FAQs

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked questions about TiDB Cloud security.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer data?

Customer data refers to the data that customer applications send to TiDB Cloud clusters for analysis, processing, and storage under their accounts. TiDB Cloud classifies customer data into the following categories:

Business data (including consumer data and table data)
Database files (including database backups and snapshots)
SQL logs

> Personally identifiable information (PII) of customers' consumers (excluding TiDB Cloud account registration and login information)

Reviewer: customers' consumers? 是否包括 customer 呢？

Author: no including

> Business data (including consumer data and table data)
> Database files (including database backups and snapshots)
> SQL logs
> Personally identifiable information (PII) of customers' consumers (excluding TiDB Cloud account registration and login information)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Business data (including consumer data and table data)
- Database files (including database backups and snapshots)
- SQL logs
- Personally identifiable information (PII) of customers' consumers (excluding TiDB Cloud account registration and login information)
```

> Customer data includes data that customers or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in the cloud providers' storage (such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Customer data includes data that customers or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in the cloud providers' storage (such as S3 buckets or EBS of AWS).
```

Reviewer: added an empty line

> Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud's operational, diagnosis, or metadata:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, diagnosis, or metadata:
```

> Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
> Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
> Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
- Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.
```

> For more information about TiDB Cloud's operational data, please refer to [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information about the operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).
```

Reviewer: added an empty line

## Who owns customer data?

As a customer, you have full ownership of your data and can choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host your data. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission.

## Who has control over customer data?

As a customer, you have complete control over your data:

> - You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. Additionally, you have the option to manage your encryption key. If you prefer to bring your key, please contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. Additionally, you have the option to manage your encryption key. If you prefer to bring your key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

- You can manage access to your data, as well as the TiDB Cloud databases and tools, through users, roles, and credentials that you control.

## Where is customer data stored?

> In TiDB Cloud, you have the flexibility to choose how and where you want to run your TiDB database. This grants you access to TiDB database tools, storage locations, regional control planes, APIs, Chat2Query, and other database services. If you want to run your database globally, you can select from various regions on AWS or GCP.

Reviewer: 1. "This grants you access"，这里的 This 是什么。 
2. “If you want to run your database globally, you can select from various regions on AWS or GCP.” 给人的感觉是同一个 cluster 可以选多个 region，是否可以删除

Author: 我修改一下啊

> As a customer, you can choose in which AWS or GCP region you want to store your data by creating your TiDB cluster in the desired region that meets your geographic needs. For instance, if you are in the USA and prefer to store your data only in the USA, you can deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you can choose in which AWS or GCP region you want to store your data by creating your TiDB cluster in the desired region that meets your geographic needs. For instance, if you are in the USA and prefer to store your data only in the USA, you can create a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.
```

> ## What are the responsibility in securing customer data?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are the responsibilities in securing customer data?
```

> When it comes to securing customer data, it's important to understand the roles and responsibilities of both TiDB Cloud and the customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to securing customer data, it is important to understand the roles and responsibilities of both TiDB Cloud and customers.
```

> TiDB Cloud is responsible for ensuring the sustainable, safe, stable, and compliant operation of the TiDB Cloud service, including the underlying infrastructure and the TiDB Cloud control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud is responsible for ensuring the sustainable, safe, stable, and compliant operation of the TiDB Cloud service, including the TiDB Cloud underlying infrastructure and the control plane.
```

> Customer are responsible for the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster, including managing access controls, implementing security features, and monitoring the security posture of your cluster. You are also responsible for the security and compliance of any data that you store, process, and transmit through your TiDB cluster. It's important to ensure that your TiDB cluster is configured to meet your security and compliance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers are responsible for the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster, including managing access controls, implementing security features, and monitoring the security posture of your cluster. You are also responsible for the security and compliance of any data that you store, process, and transmit through your TiDB cluster. It is important to ensure that your TiDB cluster is configured to meet your security and compliance requirements.
```

## Who can access customer data in TiDB Cloud?

TiDB Cloud places the highest priority on customer data security. Regardless of the region selected, TiDB Cloud implements technical, contractual, and organizational measures to ensure data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

TiDB Cloud has achieved SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) certification and verification. Additionally, third-party auditors are invited to review the certified standards annually. For more information, see the [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).

In TiDB Cloud, data access is secured with the following measures:

- TiDB Cloud has designed a multi-tenant architecture for its database service platform that follows best practices of AWS and GCP SaaS applications. The security functions and isolation mechanisms include multi-tenant authentication and authorization, network access control, data encryption, and auditing.

> - TiDB Cloud has designed a secure technical architecture that prohibits insiders from directly accessing the TiDB Cloud infrastructure. No PingCAP staff can directly access the TiDB Cloud infrastructure where customer data resides. If internal technical personnel need to monitor and maintain the TiDB Cloud infrastructure, they must go through a strict approval process, obtain minimum permissions, and pass the Bastion audit. All operational behaviors are recorded and audited, and monitoring and alarms are configured for unauthorized access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed a secure technical architecture that prohibits insiders from directly accessing the TiDB Cloud infrastructure. No PingCAP staff can directly access the TiDB Cloud infrastructure where customer data resides. If PingCAP technical personnel need to monitor and maintain the TiDB Cloud infrastructure, they must go through a strict approval process, obtain minimum permissions, and pass the Bastion audit. All operational behaviors are recorded and audited, and monitoring and alarms are configured for unauthorized access.
```

## How is customer data encrypted in TiDB Cloud?

> At TiDB Cloud, the security of customer data is a top priority. Here's how TiDB Cloud encrypts customer data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At TiDB Cloud, the security of customer data is the top priority. Here is how TiDB Cloud encrypts customer data:
```

---

> title:  Security FAQs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Security FAQs
```

summary: Learn about the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud security.
---

> #  Security FAQs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Security FAQs
```

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked security questions about TiDB Cloud.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer data？

Customer data is that customer app sends to the TiDB cluster for analysis, processing, storage by TiDB Cloud in connection with the customer's account. TiDB Cloud defines customer data as follows:

- Business data (including consumer data and table data)
- Database files (including database backups and snapshots)

> - Logs (including SQL logs and )

Reviewer 3: And what?

- Consumer personally identifiable information (PII) (not including TiDB Cloud account registration and login information）

> Customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which are located in Amazon S3 buckets or EBS of AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data includes data that a customer or their consumers store in TiKV or TiFlash, which is located in Amazon S3 buckets or EBS of AWS.
```

> Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational, diagnosis, or metadata:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer data does not include TiDB Cloud operational data, diagnosis data, or metadata:
```

> - Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
```

> - Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IPs, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
```

- Metadata includes TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

For more information about TiDB Cloud operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

> ## Who owns customer Data？

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Who owns customer data？
```

As a customer, you own your data and have the right to choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host it. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission. 

## Who has control over customer data？

As a customer, you have full control of your data:

> - You decide where your data will be stored, including the type of storage and geographic location.

Reviewer 3: There are no ways customer can choose the type of storage.

- You determine the level of security of your data based on your industry's data security and privacy policies. TiDB Cloud offers encryption features to protect your data either in transit or stored at different security levels.

- You manage access to your data, as well as access to the TiDB Cloud databases and tools through users, roles, and credentials that you control.

## Where is Customer Data stored？

In TiDB Cloud, you have the flexibility to choose how and where you want to run your TiDB database. When you do, you will have access to the same database tools, storage locations, regional control planes, APIs, Chat2Query, and other database services. If you want to run your database globally, you can choose from various regions on AWS or GCP.

> As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by deploying your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

Reviewer 3: Customer is not deploying cluster but creating cluster.

> As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by deploying your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by creating your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.
```

## What are the roles in securing customer data?

When you assess the security and compliance of roles and responsibilities, it is crucial to differentiate between the security role of TiDB Cloud and the security role of your own in using TiDB Cloud. 

TiDB Cloud is mainly responsible for implementing and maintaining the sustainable, safe, stable, and compliant operation of TiDB Cloud.

As a customer, you are your database owner, and you take the administrative and operational role of your database. You are primarily responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within the TiDB Cloud. And your role in TiDB Cloud also involves implementing and managing any security features and access control policies of your own TiDB cluster.

## Who can access customer data in TiDB Cloud?

> The security of customer data is of the highest priority to TiDB Cloud. Regardless of which TiDB Cloud region you have selected, TiDB Cloud implements rigorous technical, contractual, and organizational measures to safeguard your data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The security of customer data is the highest priority for TiDB Cloud. Regardless of which TiDB Cloud region you have selected, TiDB Cloud implements rigorous technical, contractual, and organizational measures to safeguard your data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
```

> PingCAP highest priority is securing our customer's data in TiDB Cloud, and we implement rigorous contractual,technical and organizational measures to protect TiDB Cloud confidentiality,integrity,and availability regardless of which TiDB Cloud region a customer has selected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PingCAP highest priority is securing customer's data in TiDB Cloud, and we implement rigorous contractual,technical and organizational measures to protect TiDB Cloud confidentiality,integrity,and availability regardless of which TiDB Cloud region a customer has selected.
```

> PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type2, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA, and invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type II, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA, and invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).
```

Reviewer: be consistent with the usage of SOC 2 Type II at https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center/

> PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type2, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA, and invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type2, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA, and invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).
```

> TiDB Cloud has achieved SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) certification and verification. Additionally, third-party auditors are invited to review the certified standards annually. For more information, see the [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud has achieved SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) certification and verification. Additionally, third-party auditors are invited to review the certified standards annually. For more information, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).
```

> PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and PingCAP invites third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year. For details, see [PingCAP Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center).
```

> PingCAP have passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type2, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA. For details, see [PingCAP's Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center) , and invite third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PingCAP has passed the standard certification and verification of SOC2 Type2, GDPR, PCI-DSS, and HIPAA. For details, see [PingCAP's Trust Center](https://www.pingcap.com/trust-compliance-center) , and invite third-party auditors to audit the certified standards every year.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In TiDB Cloud, the data access security measures includes the following:

```

> PingCAP designs a multi-tenant TiDB Cloud database service platform, follows the multi-tenant isolation architecture and best practices of AWS and GCP SaaS applications, and designs functions and isolation mechanisms such as multi-tenant authentication and authorization, network access control, data encryption, and auditing, focusing on Protect customer data with ongoing security and compliance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PingCAP designs a multi-tenant TiDB Cloud database service platform, follows the multi-tenant isolation architecture and best practices of AWS and GCP SaaS applications, and designs functions and isolation mechanisms such as multi-tenant authentication and authorization, network access control, data encryption, and auditing, focusing on protecting customer data with ongoing security and compliance.
```

- TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only called during TiDB Cloud initialization through the TiDB Cloud console or command line. As a customer, after TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters. PingCAP staff do not have access to service account credentials or permissions for TiDB initialization.

> ## How to encrypts customer data in TiDB Cloud？

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does TiDB Cloud encrypt customer data？
```

> - TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to this service account credentials. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed an isolation structure for internal operation account permissions to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to this service account credentials. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.
```

> - TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to this service account credentials. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The TiDB Cloud service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to this service account credentials. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.
```

> - TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only called during TiDB Cloud initialization through the TiDB Cloud console or command line. As a customer, after TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters. PingCAP staff do not have access to service account credentials or permissions for TiDB initialization.

Reviewer: The service account is only called to do xxx during TiDB Cloud initialization through the TiDB Cloud console or command line.

> - TiDB Cloud has designed an isolation structure for internal operation account permissions to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to this service account credentials. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed an isolation structure for internal operation account permissions to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and PingCAP staff do not have access and permissions to credentials of this service account. After TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters.
```

> - TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account used to initialize TiDB Cluster is only called during initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway,and internal employees cannot obtain the permissions of this service account. As a customer, after TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters. PingCAP staff also do not have access to service account credentials or permissions for TiDB cluster initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud has designed an internal operation account permission isolation structure to prevent internal personnel from using a privileged service account to access TiDB clusters. The service account is only used for initializing Serverless Tier and Dedicated Tier through the TiDB Cloud service gateway, and internal employees cannot obtain permissions for this service account. As a customer, after TiDB Cloud is initialized, you have the maximum authority over your TiDB clusters. PingCAP staff also do not have access to service account credentials or permissions for TiDB cluster initialization.
```

---
title:  Security FAQs
summary: Learn about the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) relating to TiDB Cloud security.
---

#  Security FAQs

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD026 -->

This document lists the most frequently asked questions about TiDB Cloud security.

## How does TiDB Cloud classify customer data？

Customer data is the data sent from customer applications to TiDB Cloud clusters for analysis, processing, and storage with customers' accounts. TiDB Cloud classifies customer data as follows:

- Business data (including consumer data and table data)
- Database files (including database backups and snapshots)

> - Logs (including SQL logs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SQL logs
```

> - Consumer personally identifiable information (PII) (not including information used to register and log into TiDB Cloud）

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consumer personally identifiable information (PII) (not including TiDB Cloud account registration and login information）
```

As a customer, you can decide in which AWS or GCP region your data will be stored by creating your TiDB cluster in the target region that meets your geographic needs. For example, if you are in the USA and you want to store all your data only in the USA, you can choose to deploy a TiDB cluster exclusively in the AWS Oregon (us-west-2) region.

You can also replicate and back up your data in multiple AWS or GCP regions. PingCAP will not move or replicate your data outside of your chosen AWS or GCP region without your permission.

## What are the roles in securing customer data？

When you assess the security and compliance of roles and responsibilities, it is crucial to differentiate between the security role of TiDB Cloud and the security role of your own in using TiDB Cloud. 

PingCAP is the role of TiDB cloud platform service and management, mainly responsible for implementing and maintaining the sustainable, safe, stable, and compliant operation of TiDB cloud.

> As a customer, you are your database owner, and you have an administrative and operational role. You are primarily responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within the TiDB Cloud. And your role in TiDB Cloud also involves implementing and managing any security features and access control policies of your own TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a customer, you are your database owner, and you take the administrative and operational role. You are primarily responsible for ensuring the security and compliance of your TiDB cluster within the TiDB Cloud. And your role in TiDB Cloud also involves implementing and managing any security features and access control policies of your own TiDB cluster.
```

- Operational data: TiDB Cloud control plane logs, runtime metrics, usage policies, and service ticket-related information.
- Diagnosis data: TiDB cluster logs (including logs, error logs, and slow query logs), metrics (including usage and runtime metrics), configuration (including TiDB cluster configuration items, node IP addresses, and values), monitoring, and alert-related information.
- Metadata: TiDB Cloud account registration information (including email, company name, phone number, and IP address), permissions, endpoint services, devices, versions, and tag-related information.

For more information about the operational data, see [TiDB Cloud Privacy Policy](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) and [TiDB Cloud Data Processing Agreement](https://www.pingcap.com/legal/data-processing-agreement-for-tidb-cloud-services/).

## Who owns customer data?

As a customer, you have full ownership of your data and can choose which TiDB Cloud cluster can process, store, and host your data. TiDB Cloud will not access or use your data without your permission.

## Who has control over customer data?

As a customer, you have complete control over your data:

> - You can choose how to protect your data using TiDB Cloud, which offers encryption at rest and in transit to safeguard your data. Additionally, you have the option to manage your encryption key. If you prefer to bring your key, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 4: I think we should not say this before the launch of CMEK offcially.

Author: agree，updated

- You can manage access to your data, as well as the TiDB Cloud databases and tools, through users, roles, and credentials that you control.

> ## Is customer data securely stored in TiDB Cloud?

Reviewer 4: I think this section has some overlap with "How is customer data encrypted in TiDB Cloud?" later in the doc. Better to merge?

In TiDB Cloud, customer data is protected through a combination of features and best practices, including:

- Encryption: TiDB Cloud supports encryption at rest and in transit. Data is encrypted when it is stored on disk, and is also encrypted when it is transmitted over the network. 

> - TiDB Cloud allows customers to control who has access to their data by setting up access controls list. Customers can set up roles and assign privileges to specific users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud allows customers to control who has access to their data by setting up an IP access list, and also allows customers to set up roles and assign privileges to specified users only.
```

> - TiDB Cloud is designed to run in a virtual private cloud (VPC) to isolate customer traffic from other traffic on the internet. TiDB Cloud also supports secure network communication using SSL/TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud runs in a virtual private cloud (VPC) that isolates customer traffic from other traffic on the internet. TiDB Cloud also supports secure network communication using SSL/TLS.
```

> - TiDB Cloud provides various backup and disaster recovery options to ensure that customer data is protected in case of an outage or disaster. Customers can set up automatic backups, incremental backups, and point-in-time recovery (PITR), and replicate their data to different regions for disaster recovery.

Reviewer 4: I would suggest removing all data safety (not security) related stuff from this section. Mixing disaster recovery mechanisms with security practices is not good.

> - TiDB Cloud provides a variety of backup and disaster recovery options to ensure that customer data is protected in case of an outage or disaster. Customers can set up automatic backups, incremental backups, and point-in-time recovery, as well as replicate their data to different regions for disaster recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud provides various backup and disaster recovery options to ensure that customer data is protected in case of an outage or disaster. Customers can set up automatic backups, incremental backups, and point-in-time recovery (PITR), and replicate their data to different regions for disaster recovery.
```

> - TiDB Cloud is designed to comply with various data privacy and security regulations, such as ISO27701，SOC2，GDPR and HIPAA. Customers can also set up their own compliance requirements and audit logs to monitor access to their data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Cloud complies with various data privacy and security regulations, such as ISO27701, SOC2 Type II, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Customers can set up their own compliance requirements and audit logs to monitor access to their data.
```

> Overall, TiDB Cloud is designed to provide a secure and reliable platform for storing and managing customer data. TiDB Cloud's security features and best practices are continuously updated and reviewed to ensure that customer data is protected against the latest threats and vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, TiDB Cloud provides a secure and reliable platform for storing and managing customer data. TiDB Cloud security features and best practices are also continuously updated and reviewed to ensure that customer data is protected against the latest threats and vulnerabilities.
```

> Overall, TiDB Cloud provides a secure and reliable platform for storing and managing customer data. TiDB Cloud security features and best practices are also continuously updated and reviewed to ensure that customer data is protected against the latest threats and vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, TiDB Cloud provides a secure and reliable platform for storing and managing customer data. In addition, TiDB Cloud security features and best practices are continuously updated and reviewed to ensure that customer data is protected against the latest threats and vulnerabilities.
```
